=head1 NAME

Tk::DBI::LoginDialog - DBI login dialog class for Perl/Tk.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Tk::DBI::LoginDialog;

  my $top = new MainWindow;

  my $d = $top->LoginDialog(-instance => 'XE');
 
  my $dbh = $d->login;

  print $d->error . "\n"
	unless defined($dbh);

  # ... or ...

  $d->Show;

  print $d->error . "\n"
	unless defined($d->dbh);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

"Tk::DBI::LoginDialog" is a dialog widget which interacts with the DBI
interface specifically to attempt a connection to a database, and thus
returning a database handle.

This widget allows the user to enter username and password details
into the dialog, and also to select driver, and other driver-specific
details where necessary.

The dialog presents three buttons as follows:

=over 4

=item B<Cancel>: hides the dialog without further processing or interaction.

=item B<Exit>: calls the defined exit routine.  See L<CALLBACKS>.

=item B<Login>: attempt to login via DBI with the credentials supplied.

=back


=cut

=head1 WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS

C<LoginDialog> provides the following specific options:

=over 4

=item B<-mask>

The character or string used to hide (mask) the password.


=cut

=item B<-retry>

The number of times that attempts will be made to login to the database
before giving up.  A default applies.

=back


=cut

=head1 CALLBACKS

C<LoginDialog> provides the following callbacks:

=over 4

=item B<-command>

Per the DialogBox widget, this maps the B<Login> button to the
L<DBI> login routine.

=item B<-exit>

The sub-routine to call when the B<Exit> button is pressed.
Defaults to B<Tk::exit>.

=item B<-showcommand>

This callback refreshes items in the dialog as part of the B<Show> method.

=back


=cut

=head1 ADVERTISED WIDGETS

Component subwidgets can be accessed via the B<Subwidget> method.
Valid subwidget names are listed below.

=over 4

=item Name:  driver, Class: BrowseEntry

Widget reference of B<driver> drop-down widget.

=item Name:  instance, Class: Entry

=item Name:  username, Class: Entry

=item Name:  password, Class: Entry

Widget references for the basic credential entry widgets.


=cut

=item Name:  error, Class: ROText

Widget reference of the status/error message widget.

=back


=cut

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<dbh>

Returns the database handle associated with the current object.


=cut

=item B<driver>

Set or return the B<driver> variable.


=cut

=item B<dbname>

Set or return the B<database name> variable.
May not be applicable for all driver types.


=cut

=item B<error>

Return the latest error message from the DBI framework following an
attempt to connect via the specified driver.  If last connection
attempt was successful, this will return "Connected okay."


=cut

=item B<password>

Set or return the B<password> variable.
May not be applicable for all driver types.


=cut

=item B<instance>

Set or return the B<instance> variable.
May not be applicable for all driver types.


=cut

=item B<username>

Set or return the B<username> variable.
May not be applicable for all driver types.


=cut

=item B<login>([RETRY])

A convenience function to show the login dialog and attempt connection.
The number of attempts is prescribed by the B<RETRY> parameter, which is
optional.
Returns a DBI database handle, subject to the DBI B<connect> method.

=item B<Show>

The Show method behaves as per the DialogBox widget.


=cut

=back

=head1 VERSION

Build V1.002

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright (C) 2014  B<Tom McMeekin> E<lt>tmcmeeki@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License,
or any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perl>, L<DBI>, L<Tk>, L<Tk::DialogBox>.


=cut

